## SDK Community Policies

Each SDK adopts a set of Community Policies. These include the [E4S Community Policies](https://e4s-project.github.io/policies.html), and may optionally include additional policies taylored to specific SDK needs. Note that in some cases, SDKs choose to adopt a policy that is compatibile with, but more specific than an E4S policy. For example, while E4S requires a member package to have a test suite, an individual SDK may add specifications dealing with the attributes of that test suite, such as the types of tests, coverage of those tests, etc.

The current community policies provide the standards for SDK membership. Member packages are also encouraged to consider future revision policies. Future revision policies require further refinement or planning prior to adoption, but provide information about likely subject areas for future membership criteria. The xSDK has adopted a set of [community policies](https://xsdk.info/policies/) that can be used for a starting point for community policy discussion among SDK developer communities.

A Progress Tracking Card (PTC) outlining an approach to [define and adopt SDK Community Policies](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ay8n8l8rg8TA92NpajktFA8Ua7p-fKF9RAzG92WQilk/edit?usp=sharing) is available from the [Better Scientific Software](https://bssw.io) Team. Once a team has adopted an initial set of community policies, whether beginning with the E4S policies, or also adopting additional policies, it is important to both refine the policies over time, and document compatibility with the existing policies. After initial adoption, teams are encouraged to consider the applicability and clarity of policies and take appropriate action to ensure the current community policies are effective in the desired ways. In some cases, this may involve working with the E4S community to update E4S policies.

### Documenting Compatibility with Community Policies

In order for the community policies to serve as membership criteria, it is necessary to document compatibility with each policy for every member package. The xSDK has a [system for documenting policy compatibility](https://github.com/xsdk-project/xsdk-policy-compatibility) that consists of having each prospective member package complete a form that describes the compatibility of the package with each policy, and then having an xSDK developer verify compatibility. Any potential compatibility issues or related questions are brought to an xSDK developer meeting. An analogous process for E4S policy compatibility is being discussed.
